Hello.
I am Kelly Davis,
the manager of the Mozilla Machine Learning Group.
The title of my talk
is Wreck a Nice Beach in the Browser:
Getting the Browser to Recognize Speech.
So with an eye on the clock,
let's get started.
slide-2
Here's the general outline of my talk.
I'll begin with a quick introduction
to speech recognition in the browser.
And follow that with a few words
on the standardization, or lack thereof,
of our browser-based speech recognition API.
Next, I'll move on to examine some
of the hurdles, privacy issues
that arise when one attempts
to bring speech recognition to the browser.
After that, I have a few words to say
on the implementation details
of speech to text in the browser,
to embed or not to embed the speech recognition engine
into the browser.
Finally, I'll conclude with some words
on the current lay of the land
for browser-based speech recognition.
slide-3
So let us begin at the beginning
with an introduction to speech recognition in the browser.
slide-4
As I'm sure you're well aware,
there are numerous browser-based APIs
from Web Audio to Web Workers,
however, the Web Speech API,
the API which is responsible for exposing speech recognition
in the browser, is a bit behind the curve.
It's still only a draft community group report
but it's already old.
It's been around about 10 years.
So speech in the browser is, despite its age,
still rather immature.
slide-5
One reason for its immaturity
is the struggle over standardization.
slide-6
The current Web Speech API reflects the times
in which it was originally written about 10 years ago.
In particular, it doesn't make use
of the subsequent advances in, for example,
the Web Audio API.
In addition, there are some privacy issues the API exposes
that still need to be addressed.
slide-7
Questions of privacy that were present
in the original API
and new ones that arose since the original
was written nip at the heels of standardization.
slide-8
For example, speech recognition exposes GDPR issues.
If speech recognition happens server side, as it does
in the vast majority of cases,
and your speech is retained
to help train future speech recognition engines,
as is now a standard in the industry,
how is the GDPR right of erasure implemented?
The current Web Speech API is silent on this point.
Also, if your speech is retained,
as it is for the majority
of server-based speech recognition engines,
how is the GDPR right of access implemented?
The current Web Speech API is silent on this point too.
At the core of these issues
is the issue of consent.
How does the Web Speech API handle the issues
of consent that arise when speech data is stored
and reused server side?
For the future of the Web Speech API,
it is critical to address these privacy issues.
slide-9
However, some of these privacy issues
can be addressed by addressing the question
of whether to embed or not to embed.
Whether to embed the speech recognition engine client side
or to keep it server side
as is current common practice.
slide-10
Answering the question to embed or not to embed involves
a number of trade-offs.
Embedding improves latency:
responses are almost immediate.
Privacy and security:
the data never leaves your machine.
It also cuts recurring and non-recurring costs
for the browser provider.
Not embedding has benefits too.
As one has access to more compute,
one can obtain better-quality speech recognition.
Also, one can retain speech data
to learn more about your users
and to use as a source of training data.
In addition, the data retained
is a competitive advantage
over those that change to embed
as they have to obtain training data some other way,
which is usually time consuming and expensive.
slide-11
With all of this and more in play,
one can see that the lay of the land
for browser-based speech recognition is complicated.
slide-12
Currently, no browser implements the API
as specified by the Web Speech API.
The current implementations all come
with asterisks, indicating that they are deficient
in some way.
For example, using of a vendor prefix
or putting limitations on how the pages can be served.
So as you can see, the Web Speech API
is currently very much a work in progress.
slide-13
Fini.
That's the end of my talk.
Thanks for listening.